hi I'm Steve Sapienza I'm a freelance
news and documentary producer I'm
currently in Bangladesh and I'm here on
a travel grant from the Pulitzer Center
on Crisis Reporting and I'm looking at
water sanitation and hygiene challenges
here in Bangladesh and in particular
here in Dhaka Bangladesh is considered
one of the more densely populated
countries and on earth and here in the
capital Dhaka it is a very crowded city
it's very noisy it's very exciting very
vibrant and it's also growing very
quickly at a very fast rate many people
are moving into the city some 400,000
new residents every year from rural
areas moving into the city and a lot of
them end up in in slum areas which you
can see over my shoulder here in the
background and there's a lot of pressure
put on this city in terms of the social
environmental and health concerns and
already the city is facing a lot of
challenges that the mega cities face in
developing countries all over the world
really really bad traffic they've got
problems with infrastructure in terms of
you know the roads and power there are a
lot of power outages here and the
Sanitation situation here is really
severe almost two-thirds of the city has
no access to the city's sewer lines so
that means the sewage is removed from
pit latrines from septic tanks and it's
actually deposited here and there and
left to really seep into the ground or
the the water that you can see exists
all around Dhaka and this poses a severe
health hazard not only that a lot of the
water surface water is that actually
goes back into the water system here in
Dhaka it's treated but it has the
potential to add more disease and
problems to the local water supply so
this reporting project will look at the
water sanitation and hygiene issues here
in Dhaka and around Bangladesh and it
will really focus in on a lot of simple
safe solutions
that are happening here to really change
people's lives these are solutions that
can happen at very low cost but have
huge impacts on the everyday lives of
urban poor and the overall health of the
city in general reporting from
Bangladesh is a challenge there are many
different types of ways that make it
difficult to get a story done here I can
speak directly to problems here in Dhaka
first of all it's very very crowded
crowded this being one of the most
densely populated countries on earth
there are insane traffic jams traffic
jams like I've never seen before
sometimes just a simple trip across town
could take three to four hours and when
you're on a tight schedule that can
really really mess up your day
another issue is noise there's always a
lot of noise going on so if you're
trying to get you know a good interview
or a good sound for video or perhaps if
you're a radio reporter for radio
reporting there's just an enormous
amount of noise all the time everywhere
you go another thing that is problematic
a lot of times this has to do with the
crowds again number of people sometimes
will set up a camera and a lot of people
will crowd around including they'll walk
right into the shot or they'll just come
walk right up and just stare right into
the camera and you know it's it's pretty
funny when it happens but it slows slows
down your progress in what you're trying
to get done there also a lot of power
blackouts so you have to make sure that
you have a good source of energy to
power up your your lights and your your
camera batteries that's another
challenge and I think maybe one last
challenge that happens at this
particular time of year which is Ramadan
you often have to work around the
different prayer times during the day
and also take breaks for the different
for the iftar in the evening when they
break fast so you have to respect the
local culture and you have to work
within the scheduled time that this
country is running on during Ramadan so
this is my third trip to Bangladesh and
my impressions of Bangladesh have
changed since I first came here you know
over my overall impression is that this
is a country facing so many many many
difficult challenges I mean you've got
extreme poverty you have climate change
issues that are impacting this country
you have you have disease there's
corruption there's a lot of really
really heavy problems that are affecting
Bangladesh but I've my I've been really
impressed with how this country and its
people take on these challenges
unfortunately many many years ago this
country was tagged as an international
basket case and it's still a very very
young growing democratic country and you
feel that there are a lot of people here
very who are trying very hard to make
things and succeeding in in making
strides towards improving their country
and that is what I've seen here and I
think you know the overall impression
I'll have coming away from this story is
that there are a lot of dedicated
hard-working people who are finding very
simple safe effective solutions to water
and sanitation problems here in
Bangladesh that are going to help this
country move forward and also could be
exported to the rest of the world and
help other countries with their
sanitation and water access issues